* ~~Piñeiro, María Inés~~
  ~~Adiós al papel.~~
  ~~(En: IT manager. Buenos Aires v. 2 nº 12 (abr. 2000) p. 15-18.)~~
  ~~Ubicación: H. 6293~~
       * Describes a leading case study: all the information generated by an insurance firm and the transfer to the digital domain: Data not relevant for the purpose desired (mostly because it is outdated)
  ---------------------------------
*  ~~Jones, Maggie~~
  ~~Digital preservation activities in the United Kingdom, building the infrastructure.~~
~~(En: IFLA journal. München v. 29 nº 4 (2003) p. 320-356 30 cm.)~~
  ~~Ubicación: H. 6020~~ 
       * In Bibliography, encourage to go to Collect Britain (a project from British Library. Today, this domain is on sale. Vide http://www.collectbritain.co.uk/
  ---------------------------------
*  ~~Singh, Anil~~
  ~~Digital preservation of cultural heritage resources and manuscripts.~~
~~(En: IFLA journal. München v. 38 nº 4 (Dec. 2012) p. [289-296] il. 30 cm.)~~
  ~~Ubicación: H. 6020~~
       * Mostly, take in count the bibliography. 
  ---------------------------------
* ~~Christie Koontz and Barbara Gubbin~~
  ~~IFLA Public Library Service guidelines~~
  ~~Ubicación: 142342/2a (147)~~
  ~~1/475323 v.: U ej: 1~~
      * Data not relevant for the purpose desired
  ---------------------------------  
*   		~~Roldán, Patricio R.~~
  ~~Digitalización de imágenes en la pericia caligráfica. Buenos Aires, Ediciones La Rocca, 2006.~~
  ~~Ubicación: 130471~~
       * Data not relevant for the purpose desired
  ---------------------------------
 * ~~Digitization and digital libraries module [recurso electrónico]. English V1.0. [Roma], FAO, 2005.~~
  ~~Ubicación: CDR 782~~
      * CD-ROM made by iMask for UNESCO. A kind of workshop plus a couple of tutorials on digital treatment (image formats, mark-up records, character encoding, document conversion, metadata guidelines, Dublin Core standards, document indexing); some protocols, legal advisory on copyrights and final deadlines to meet.
      * Lesson 4.6: Considerations for delicate and heritage documents: management of risk and how to avoid their deterioration: before, during, after digitization.
      * (...) Researches should be involved in your work as well: they will probably show an interest in the project and could warn about problems resulting from inappropiate handling.
      * (...) The biggest enemy of delicate materials is the change of environmental conditions. This happens when you move the materials from a stable storage environment to your digitization centre. The materials may then change their original form, for example, physical modifications and movement of parchments may result in the accelerated embrittlement of the acid paper. (...) ensure appropiate climate control during transportation. (...) The temperature and relative humidity at the digitization centre should be the same as at the permanent storage environment. You should also avoid exposure of digitized materials to additional sources of heat and light.
      * (...) And important aspect to be considered is light control. During the scanning process, the materials are exposed to heat and light for a rather long period of time. You should minimize the heat exposure in this case.
      * (...) Place special infrared protection foil between the lights and the exposed material. 
      * (...) Place small ventilators behind the lights. The air will take the heat out of this space. 
      * (...) For transporation back to remote repositories, take the same security and climate control measures as you did during transportation for digitization. Use the digitization-relate care period for the introduction of additional preservation methods, try to improve the storage of originals (...) by the use of protective boxes made with acid-free milboard paper or use protective permanent paper envelopes. 
  ---------------------------------
  *     Herrera Morillas, José Luis
  Tratamiento y difusión digital del libro antiguo. Gijón, Ediciones Trea, 2003.
  Ubicación: 128026
  ----------------------------------
   *		Zuleta, Juan Antonio, 1956-
  La imagen digital sin misterios. Buenos Aires, Ediciones Fotográficas Argentina, 2000.
  Ubicación: B. 7061 ¦ CDR 328 (T)
  -----------------------------------
  * Regional Training Workshop on the Preservation of and Access to the Documentary Heritage in Asia and the Pacific Region (2º : 2004 : Cheongju, Corea)   
       * Digitalization of documentary heritage for preservation and access / 2nd UNESCO Regional Training Workshop on the Preservation of and Access to the Documentary Heritage in Asia and the Pacific Region
       * (take in count the p. 39, some links to check: repository checklist & resource guide)
  -----------------------------------
  *        ~~Fernández-Aballí, Isidro~~
  ~~Challenges and opportunities of digital libraries and digital repositories.~~
~~(En: Infolac. Caracas v. 20 nº 3 () p. 13-21 retrs. 30 cm.)~~
  ~~Ubicación: O.I. UNESCO P 78~~
       * Data not relevant for the purpose desired
  -----------------------------------
  * ~~Pienaar, Rae E.~~
  ~~Survival information: The role of the Public library in the social and cultural development of disadvantaged communities.~~
  ~~(En: IFLA Journal, vol. 21 (1995), N° 1, (Feb. 1995), p. 15-18).~~
       * Data not relevant for the purpose desired
  -----------------------------------
  * ~~Roy, Loriene~~
  ~~Indigenous cultural heritage preservation: A review essay with ideas for the future.~~
  ~~(IFLA Journal, vol. 41 (2015), N° 3, (Oct. 2015), p. 192-203~~
       * (...) The increasing importance of digital cultural heritage expands the discussion surrounding Indigenous cultural heritage to legal and policy issues, bringing in topics such as e-publishing, e-lending, and access, incluing the notion of the right to be forgotten. (p. 196)
       * (...) digitization is often regarded as the de facto process for preservation (p. 198)
       * (...) New tools are being developed, while frameworks brought in from other disciplines are offering different ways of thinking. (p. 200)
       * Bibliography is a plus
 -----------------------------------               
  * ~~Heuberger, Rachel; Leone, Laura; Evers, Renate~~
  ~~The challenges of reconstructing cultural heritage: An international digital collaboration.~~
  ~~(IFLA Journal, vol. 41 (2015), N° 3, (Oct. 2015), p. 223-229~~
      * (...) Due to the rarity and fragile condition of historic resources for Jewish studies neither the Center nor the JSF allows for their lending, requiring researchers to travel to their reading room to view the works onsite (...) (p. 225)
      * (...) The project required detailed bibligraphical preparation, selection, verification, and intense tracking of materiales 
      * (...) LB catalogers, working from the original Freimann Library catalog, worked through the titles that was identified as missing 
      * (...) the process ensured not only the selection of materials but also their full descriptive cataloging which was required before digitization took place (p. 226)
      * (...) Photographers while not particularly vulnerable overall  as objects, made them more vulnerable for photography in particular. For example, condition issues such as brittleness and tight margins necessitated the removal of a selection of books from the original list. (p. 227)
      * (...) This international project is an excellent case study for the reconstruction of cultrural heritage by digitally unifying resources hat have been physically scattered across the globe due to world events. 
      * (...) Collaborative, themed digital portal are on the one hand important technical tools to reconstruct collections and on the other hand important research tools to promote humanities and cultural content in context to existing and new audiences.(p. 228)
      * Chapter intitled Digitization at the Center's digital lab offers great insights about hardware and procedures.
 -----------------------------------
  * ~~Sahoo, Jyotshna; Mohanty, Basudev~~
  ~~Digitization of Indian manuscripts heritage: Role of the National Mission for Manuscripts~~
  ~~(IFLA Journal, vol. 41 (2015), N° 3, (Oct. 2015), p. 237-250~~
      * (...) The Mission has developed a guideline known as 'Guidelines for Digitization of Manuscripts' which covers the detailed guidelines for scanning like image quality, resolution, bit depth, image enhancement process, compression, output especification, etc. (p. 245)
      * (...) Similarly, four image formats namely master image (TIFF format), clean image (TIFF format), access image (JPEG format) and thumbnail image (JPEG format) (p. 245)
      * (...) quality assurances is performed on all master images and their derivatives with regard to size and resolution of image, file format, image mode, bit depth, tonal values, brightness, contrast, sharpness, interference, orientation, missing lines or pixel, text legibility, cropped and border areas, etc. (p. 245)
      * (...) For each digitized manuscripts two sets of metadata are created namely subject metadata and technical metadata. (p. 245)
      * (...) Technical metadata is automatically generated and assigned to the image file  at the time of creation and the data elements covered are: file name, date created,  date modified, equipment used, image format, width, height,  colour mode, etc. (p. 245)
 -----------------------------------
  * ~~Solodovnik, Iryna; Budroni, Paolo~~
  ~~Preserving digital heritage: At the crossroads of Trust and Linked Open Data~~
  ~~(IFLA Journal, vol. 41 (2015), N° 3, (Oct. 2015), p. 251-264~~
      * (...) Pursuing preservation research to forward the National Preservation Research Agenda, the Library of Congress, in consultation with leading scientific laboratories, has developed a matrix of preservation science projects undertaken by libraries, archives (...)
      * (The qualitative shift from good rewearch to good practice requieres cutting-edge strategies, as in the implementation of method underpinning the storage of digital memories comprising both short-term and long-term preservation of digital objects (...)
      * Bibliography is a plus (particularly about ISO, DOI, Wikipedia: _Digital repository standards development_, [Zenodo](http://zenodo.org/): _Schema for the description of research data repositories_ & Weidner, AJ: _Workflow tools for digital curation_, _et alia_)
 -----------------------------------
  * ~~Ghamouh, Nadjia; Boulahlib, Meriem~~
  ~~Cultural heritage digitization projects in Algeria: Case study of the National Library~~
  ~~(IFLA Journal, vol. 41 (2015), N° 3, (Oct. 2015), p. 272-278~~
       * Besides cataloging, the Manuscripts and Rare Books Department is now working on manuscript sterilization for restoration and preservation goals." (p. 274)
       * (...) An international company which uses robotic bound document scanning systems, Kirtas, obtained this tender and tested the Kabis TM700 scanner to digitize the manuscripts. After a while, the scanner started to shred parts from the most fragile manuscripts. (...) This failed program, which was caused by a lack of understanding of the physical characteristics and fragility of manuscripts and rare books was an unfortunate episode in the history of the Algerian National Library" (p. 275)
 -----------------------------------
  * ~~IT REVIEW~~
  ~~Newsletter of the IFLA Section on Information Technology, June 1994, No. 23~~
       * mostly describes about library protocols: ANSI/NISO, ISO, Z39.50, etc.
       * data outdated.     
 -----------------------------------
  * ~~International Preservation News~~
  ~~No. 25, august 2001, IFLA PAC~~
        * Taking care of the books (p. 6). Advice & promotion of good practices. A graphical example on "_How to cover books_". (p. 7)
 -----------------------------------
  * ~~International Preservation News~~
  ~~No. 24, may 2001, IFLA PAC~~
  Preserving Maori documentary heritage in New Zealand
      * (...) The National Library of New Zealand is responsible for collecting and preserving the national documentary heritage. It is obliged by law to consider the particular needs of Maori, the country's indigenous people. As a repository of records of significance to all, the Librarry has developed its own strategic goal to work in partnership with Maori." (p. 11)
      + (...) The storage and treatment facilities for preserving collections at the National Library are excelent (...) (p. 14)
      * (...) Collections and their preservation need to be examined in the light of Maori rights and aspirations for control of, as well as access to, their resoruces." (p. 14)
 -----------------------------------
  * ~~International Preservation News~~
  ~~No. 22, 23, august-december 2000, IFLA PAC~~
  Architecture and Preservation: Fighting the Same Battle
      * (...) During the institution's working hours, there should be very low level lighting in the stores (20 to 50 lux), with the possibility of increasing the lighting level to 200-300 lux for a few minutes at a time by the use of time switchess (operating time: 10  to 15 minutes). When the institution is closed, the stores can reamin in total darkness. (p. 11)
      * (...) Furthermore, artificial light sources hould produce only low ultraviolet radiation (less than 75W/lm). Their heat output in the stores should also be very low. Planning the system of environment management should also take into account the heat put out by artificial light sources. (p. 11)
      * (...) The environment levels in the stores, the temperature and relative humidity of the air, are expressed by ranges giving the limits of acceptable seasonal variations. Short-term variations in humidity should in principle be limited to 2% per hour per day. (p. 12)
      * (...) Environmental stability should never be sought by the use of air conditioning. (p. 12)
      * (...) Environmental stability is a very important preservation factor. Although the influence on preservation of absolute termperature and rlative humidity values has benn clearly established, these should be considered taking into account the annual climatic variations in the region in question. Moreover, relative humidity is known to be a vital factor in the preservation or deterioration of almost all types of written or printed cultural property. Control of relative humidity should take priority over temperature control. (p. 12)
      * (...) avoid harmful thermal shocks. (p. 12)
      * Environment ranges in the stores (in temperate zones):
           - winter temperature: 16-18℃, if the temperature of the reading rooms is: 21-22℃
           - summer temperature: 
                * air contitionaed stores and reading rooms: the temperature in the stores should be 18.20℃ when it is 24℃ in the reading rooms, otherwise 4-5℃ below the reading room temperature.
                * non-air conditioned reading rooms: the temperature in the stores should be 22-24℃, if the reading room temperature does not exceed 27-28℃, otherwise 4-5℃ below the temperature of the work areas.
           - realtive humidity in winter: 45-55%
           - relative humidity in summer: 50-60%. Levels exceeding 65% hsould be avoided for periods exceeding 24-48 hours, depending on the seriousness of the overshoot.
           - realtive humidity for rooms intended for preservation of photographic material: 30-40%. Ideal temperature of this typo of storage area: 12-14℃.
      * (...) An air conditioning system provides the necessary volume of fresh air at the correct temperature and relative humidity: it should never be used to compensate for negative-outside-influences, which should be neutralised by the quality of the construction. (p. 14)
      * (...) Air-conditioning apparata (heating, cooling, humidification and dehumidification) should be smaller than specified in the usual standards, to promote environmental stability. (p. 15)
      * (...) Independently of the air conditioning system chosen, outside-air blown into the stores should be carefully filtered to eliminate suspended dust particles and gaseous plllutants. The recommended solution is a combination of dust filters of type F8/F9 (or, better still, H10/H11) with an active carbon filter and a Purafil-type chemical absorption filter. In this way the pollytants are practically eliminated. (p. 15)
      